<h1>Class Assignment 3</h1>

---

<h2>Part 1</h2>

For this class assignment I used the VM created in SCOMRED in the first semester, 
and I double-checked the network configuration settings given in DEVOPS. 
I noticed I had configured the Network Adapter 1 as a Bridge Adapter instead of NAT, 
which I corrected as per the instructions given in the DEVOPS class materials. 
Since part 2 of the assignment requires the GitHub repository to have public visibility, 
I changed this setting ahead of time as well.

I then installed git and cloned the repository inside the VM, in a folder named devops,

```
$ sudo apt install git-all
$ cd $HOME
$ mkdir devops
$ cd devops
$ git clone https://github.com/Filipe-A-Cruz/devops-23-24-JPE-PSM-1231828.git
```

I then checked if I had Java installed in the VM, and installed Maven and Gradle,

```
$ java --version
$ sudo apt install maven
$ sudo apt install gradle
```

Java 11 was installed in the VM, which was sufficient to run the Spring Boot application
I worked on in the Class Assignment 1,

```
$ cd $HOME
$ cd devops/devops-23-24-JPE-PSM-1231828/CA1/basic
$ mvn clean
$ mvn spring-boot:run
```

The address of the webpage generated by the app was different, 
namely ```http://192.168.182.5:8080/``` instead of ```http://localhost:8080/```, 
where ```192.168.182.5``` is the IPv4 address of my VM. All the features of the application 
worked normally, via the ```$ curl``` command from the host machine, as documented in the report of CA1.

As for the Gradle basic demo, I ran into problems related with the versions of software installed in my VM. 
In particular, the default ```$ sudo apt install gradle``` had installed Gradle 4.4 in my VM, whereas the 
current version is 8.7. I had used Gradle 8.6 in the Class Assignment 2 and some the syntax in ```build.gradle```
was not recognized by Gradle 4.4.

I decided to update Git, Java, Maven and Gradle to the latest versions. For Git, I added the 
Personal Package Archive (PPA) of the "Ubuntu Git Maintainers" team to the Software Sources of my VM,

```
$ sudo add-apt-repository ppa:git-core/ppa
$ sudo apt update
$ sudo apt upgrade
```

For Java, I specifically installed version 21 of the OpenJDK, which is the 
latest LTS version,

```
$ sudo apt install openjdk-21-jdk
```

For Maven and Gradle, I used the community project SDKMAN! to update to the latest version. 
First I installed zip, then I installed SDKMAN! and finally used SDKMAN! 
to update Maven and Gradle to the latest versions,

```
$ sudo apt install zip
$ curl -s "https://get.sdkman.io" | bash
$ source "$HOME/.sdkman/bin/sdkman-init.sh"
$ sdk install maven 3.9.6
$ sdk install gradle 8.7
```

Finally, I edited the arguments of the task runClient in ```build.gradle```, from
```args 'localhost', '59001'``` to ```args '192.168.182.5', '59001'```, such that, when running the 
client app from the host machine, the client attempts to connect with the server previously launched 
on the VM,

```
# on the VM
$ cd $HOME
$ cd devops/devops-23-24-JPE-PSM-1231828/CA2/part1
$ gradle runServer
```

```
# on the host machine
$ cd C:\temp\devops-23-24-JPE-PSM-1231828\CA2\part1
$ gradle runClient
```

Of course, the client app cannot the executed on Ubuntu Server, since there is no GUI.

---